Kubernetes cluster ( Meaning it has multiple components spread across different servers over a network. These servers could be Virtual machines or bare metal servers.)

A Kubernetes cluster consists of a control plane and worker nodes.

âœ… The control plane is responsible for maintaining the desired state of the cluster. It is also responsible for node/pod lifecycle management and exposing cluster API. It has the following components.
1.	kube-apiserver
2.	etcd
3.	kube-scheduler
4.	kube-controller-manager
5.	cloud-controller-manager

âœ… The Worker nodes are responsible for running containerized applications. The worker Node has the following components.

1. kubelet
2. kube-proxy
3. Container runtime (CRI-O, Docker Engine, Containerd, etc)

âœ… Additionally there are add-on components that you can add to the cluster to extend its functionality and make the cluster fully functional for application deployments.

1. Web UI
2. Core DNS
3. Metrics Server
4. CNI Plugins (Container Network Interface)

In this Kubernetes distributed scenario, the connection happening through the network to connect with different Kubernetes components should be secure and all the components should be able to authenticate each other.

Kubernetes uses PKI certificates for authentication over TLS.

KUBE-API SERVER

The kube-api server is the central hub of the Kubernetes cluster that exposes the Kubernetes API.

It is the main entry point to the cluster. End users, and other cluster components, talk to the cluster via the API server.

Also, Monitoring systems and third-party services may talk to API servers to interact with the cluster.

All these systems communicate with the API server through HTTP REST APIs.

However, the internal cluster components like the scheduler, controller, etc talk to the API server using gRPC.

Kubernetes api-server is responsible for the following 

âœ… ğ—”ğ—£ğ—œ ğ—ºğ—®ğ—»ğ—®ğ—´ğ—²ğ—ºğ—²ğ—»ğ˜: Exposes the cluster API endpoint and handles all API requests.
âœ… ğ—”ğ˜‚ğ˜ğ—µğ—²ğ—»ğ˜ğ—¶ğ—°ğ—®ğ˜ğ—¶ğ—¼ğ—»: Using client certificates, bearer tokens, and HTTP Basic Authentication
âœ… ğ—”ğ˜‚ğ˜ğ—µğ—¼ğ—¿ğ—¶ğ˜‡ğ—®ğ˜ğ—¶ğ—¼ğ—»: ABAC and RBAC evaluation
âœ… ğ—©ğ—®ğ—¹ğ—¶ğ—±ğ—®ğ˜ğ—¶ğ—¼ğ—»: Processing API requests and validating data for the API objects like pods, services, etc. (Validation and Mutation Admission controllers)
âœ… It is the only component that communicates with etcd. 
âœ… API-server coordinates all the container orchestration processes between the control plane and worker node components.

The communication between the API server and other components in the cluster happens over TLS to prevent unauthorized access to the cluster.



